meshmodel docs (#8656)
meshery/meshery: docs/pages/guides/mesheryctl/system-commands.md

`mesheryctl system start --platform string` : It allows you specify a platform for deploying Meshery.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/platform.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/platform.png" /></a>

### stop 
`mesheryctl system stop` : It stops Meshery resources & delete its associated namespaces.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system stop --reset` : It stops Meshery and resets the Meshery configuration file to its default configuration.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop reset.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop reset.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system stop --keep-namespace` : It stops Meshery without deleting the associated namespaces.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/keep namespace.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/keep namespace.png" /></a>

> `mesheryctl system stop --force` : Force stops Meshery instead of gentle way. This is only in emergency situations when `mesheryctl system stop` can't halt Meshery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system stop --force` : Force stops Meshery instead of gentle way. This is only used in emergency situations when `mesheryctl system stop` can't halt Meshery.
```

---
layout : default
title : Mesheryctl system commands
permalink : guides/mesheryctl/system-commands
language : en
type : Guides
category : mesheryctl
---

> Let's get familiar with mesheryctl system commands. The syntax of commands goes like this : `mesheryctl <Main_command> <Argument> <Flags>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's get familiar with mesheryctl system commands. The syntax of the mesheryctl commands goes as follows : `mesheryctl <Main_command> <Argument> <Flags>`
```

## Main_command : system
### start 

> `mesheryctl system start` : it will initiate the Meshery & automatically open it in your default web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system start` : This will initiate Meshery & automatically open it in your default web browser.
```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/start.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/start.png" /></a>

> `mesheryctl system start --skip-browser` : It skips opening your browser with the provided URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system start --skip-browser` : It skips opening Meshery in your browser with the provided URL.
```

> `mesheryctl system start --skip-browser` : If you don't want to open the URL on your default browser you can use this command. It will provide the URL, so that you can open the URL on any browser.

Reviewer 2: for this command use this statement instead

```suggestion
`mesheryctl system start --skip-browser` : It skips opening your browser with a provided URL..
```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/skipbrowser.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/skipbrowser.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system start --skip-update` : It is used when you want to skip updating Meshery if an update is available.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context view.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context view.png" /></a>

> `mesheryctl system start --reset` : It reset your Meshery configuration file to its default configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system start --reset` : It resets your Meshery configuration file to its default configuration.
```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/skipbrowser.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/skipbrowser.png" /></a>

> 
> `mesheryctl system start --platform string` : It allows you to specify the platform for running Meshery.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system start --platform string` : It allows you specify a platform for deploying meshery 
```

Reviewer: meshery is caps ;)

```suggestion

`mesheryctl system start --platform string` : It allows you to specify the platform for deploying Meshery.

```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/platform.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/platform.png" /></a>

### stop 

> `mesheryctl system stop` : it stops Meshery resources & delete the associated namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system stop` : It stops Meshery resources & delete its associated namespaces.
```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system stop --reset` : It stops Meshery and resets the Meshery configuration file to its default configuration.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop reset.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/stop reset.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system stop --keep-namespace` : It stops Meshery without deleting the associated namespaces.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/keep namespace.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/keep namespace.png" /></a>

> `mesheryctl system stop --force` : Use this in emergency situations when `mesheryctl system stop` can't halt Meshery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system stop --force` : Force stops Meshery instead of gentle way. This is used only in emergency situations when `mesheryctl system stop` can't halt Meshery.
```

`mesheryctl system dashboard` : Opens the Meshery dashboard in your default browser.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/system dahboard.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/system dahboard.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system dashboard --skip-browser` : Provides the link to the dashboard, allowing you to open it in any browser.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/dashboard skip.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/dashboard skip.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system dashboard --port-forward` : If the current port is busy, it opens the dashboard on another port.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/portforward.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/portforward.png" /></a>

### login 
`mesheryctl system login` : Authenticates you with your selected provider.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/system login.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/system login.png" /></a>

### check

> `mesheryctl system check` : Performs checks for both pre & post  mesh deployment scenarios on Meshery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system check` : Performs checks for both pre & post mesh deployment scenarios on Meshery.
```

> `mesheryctl system check` : Performs checks for mesh deployment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system check` : Performs checks  for both pre and post mesh deployment scenarios on Meshery
```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/system check.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/system check.png" /></a>

`mesheryctl system check --preflight` : Runs pre-deployment checks.

> `mesheryctl system check --adapter` : Runs checks for specific adapter
> 
> `mesheryctl system check --adapters` : Runs checks for adapters
> 
> `mesheryctl system check --components` : Runs checks for components

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system check --adapter` : Runs checks for a specific Mesh adapter

`mesheryctl system check --adapters` : Runs checks for Meshery adapters

`mesheryctl system check --components` : Runs checks for Meshery components
```

`mesheryctl system check --operator` : Runs checks for Meshery Operator

## Main_command : system channel
### channel
`mesheyctl system channel set [stable|stable-version|edge|edge-version]` : Used to set the channel.

`mesheyctl system channel switch [stable|stable-version|edge|edge-version]` : Used to switch between channels.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/channel set.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/channel set.png" /></a>

`mesheyctl system channel view --all` : Displays all available channels.

`mesheyctl system channel view` : Displays the current channel.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/channel view.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/channel view.png" /></a>

## Main_command : system context
### create 
`mesheryctl system context create 'context-name'` : Creates a new context with default parameters.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context create.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context create.png" /></a>

> `mesheryctl system context create --component stringArray` : specifies the component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system context create --component stringArray` : Specifies the component to be created in the context.
```

`mesheryctl system context create --platform string` : Specifies the platform.

`mesheryctl system context create --set` : Sets this  context as default context.

> `mesheryctl system context create --url string` : Specifies the URL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system context create --url string` : Specifies the target URL
```

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context flag.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context flag.png" /></a>

###  switch
`mesheryctl system context switch` :  Switches between different contexts.

<a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context flag.png"><img alt="skip-browser" style="width:500px;height:auto;" src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/syscmd/context flag.png" /></a>

###  list

> `mesheryctl system context list` : lists all your contexts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mesheryctl system context list` : Lists all your available Meshery contexts.
```
